This year's richest person, the
existence of aliens, even the return of
Jesus Christ.
Believe it or not, people are actually
betting on stuff like this.
>> Prediction markets are platforms online
where [music] you can bet on future
events. The best known platforms are
Kalshi, Polymarket, but there are a
bunch of others.
>> And over the past year, they've exploded
in popularity.
>> Kalshi partnered with CNN, CNBC,
>> Google announcing it will integrate
Kalshi's data.
>> MLB naming Polymarket its official
prediction market partner.
>> We have New York Stock Exchange owner
taking a stake into Polymarket. [music]
You're starting to see Polymarket and
Kalshi really get into the mainstream
vernacular.
>> If you had me saying potato on
Polymarket, you just made a ton of
money.
>> Prediction market app, dude. You know,
online peer-to-peer betting.
>> The amount of money involved has
skyrocketed.
>> Kalshi currently handles 3 billion of
notional trading a week. Just at the
beginning of 2025, [music]
they were handling 30 million. So, 100
times more. We're seeing pretty similar
numbers
>> [music]
>> for Polymarket.
>> The boom is creating a new class of
market watchers.
>> You're just placing trades based on the
news and the information that you have.
>> Information [music] is power.
>> I was able to pay off my student loans
with the money I got from Kalshi. I'm
putting myself through grad school. I
was able to pay off my car.
>> But most people aren't paying off their
bills. They're losing money.
>> I feel so bad for 18- to 35-year-old
males losing so much money.
>> People are gambling on war.
>> As the US and Israel prepared to strike
Iran, platforms like Polymarket saw a
surge in activity.
>> One of the criticisms of prediction
markets is that they've created the
financialization of everything. Should
you be even allowed to bet on military
[music] endeavors, or should that be
something that is off limits?
>> As these markets get more esoteric and
specific, they become more easily
gameable, more difficult [music] to
monitor insider trading and market
manipulation.
>> So, what happens when you can bet on
almost anything?
>> [music]
>> From the perspective of the prediction
markets, this is not gambling. This is
trading a derivative
>> [music]
>> like any other derivative, whether it's
wheat futures or something that has
real-world utility. [music]
>> Kalshi or any other prediction market
are regulated by the Commodity Futures
Trading Commission on a federal level.
>> It's a yes or no outcome. When you buy
shares, they can be priced anywhere from
1 cent to 99 [music] cents. That price
is determined by what traders are
willing to pay for that outcome at the
moment in time.
>> Unlike sports gambling, prediction
markets don't have a house taking the
opposite side of your bet.
>> We don't actually make money when people
lose.
>> Instead, they match buyers and sellers
and generate revenue [music] from
transaction fees.
>> Prediction markets are based on supply
and [music] demand. It's a peer-to-peer
market. If I place a yes on a certain
outcome, whether it's going to rain in
Central Park tomorrow, there needs to be
enough people thinking that it's not
going to rain to take the opposite side
of the bet.
>> And while you're welcome to make
predictions about the weather, most
people on these platforms are there for
sports.
>> Indiana going to win, baby.
>> As of March, around 70% of Kalshi's
weekly trading volume was entirely made
up of sports-related bets.
Sports gambling was mostly illegal in
the US until 2018, when the Supreme
[music] Court struck down a federal ban.
Today, nearly 40 states have legalized
it in some form, bringing in billions of
dollars in tax revenue each year.
>> The states that [music] have legalized
sports betting are upset because they
can't control the sports betting that's
going on on Kalshi, and crucially,
[music] they can't collect tax revenues
on it. Now, other states that have not
legalized sports betting are upset
because now, without their consent or
their control, sports betting is now
legal. [music]
>> Several US states have sued Kalshi,
Polymarket, Robinhood, a bunch of other
platforms saying that they should have
jurisdiction over what they consider to
be sports [music] gambling.
>> From the consumer's perspective, even
though the underlying plumbing is
different [music]
and the regulations are somewhat
different, when you open the app, very
much it's the same experience.
>> Arizona is a filing criminal charges
against Kalshi, accusing the prediction
market exchange of operating an illegal
gambling business.
>> So, we see this as a total overstep, uh
and we look forward to fighting it in
court.
>> Most [music] retail investors, regular
people on the street, they're probably
less interested in betting on what
interest rates will be next month, but
they're pretty interested in betting on
who won the Super Bowl.
>> Billions are also expected to be placed
on World Cup outcomes.
>> 93% on Kalshi right now.
>> Yes, chance of victory.
>> This is how we bring [laughter] the
numbers down.
>> People also like to bet on politics.
[music]
>> Polymarket and Kalshi particularly got
big around the 2024 US presidential
election.
>> This election is going to be close, but
we are going to win.
>> Everyone was talking about the odds of
President Trump [music]
winning the election.
>> The latest polling from NBC News showing
Donald Trump and Kamala Harris neck and
neck.
>> And [music] there was somewhat of a gap.
>> Those markets actually predicted that
Trump would win more accurately than
polls did. So, that [music] helped
improve the reputation of prediction
markets.
>> I, Donald John Trump
>> Trump's victory was a win for prediction
markets as well.
>> Donald Trump Jr. is an advisor to
[music] Kalshi and he's both an advisor
and an investor in Polymarket.
>> [music]
>> The Trump Media company has its own
prediction market platform [music] that
it's announced called Truth Predict.
>> The Biden administration had been
critical and went after Polymarket and
Kalshi with mixed results.
But the same agency under Trump has come
out swinging for the industry to keep it
legal.
>> To those who seek to challenge our
authority in this space, let me be
[music] clear. We will see you in court.
>> At the end of the day, there's a limit
to regulatory control.
Polymarket has since become federally
registered and is offering some bets in
the US again. Even while most people can
access [music] the full service via
virtual private networks or VPNs.
Conversely, Kalshi is trying to expand
overseas.
>> For Kalshi, they've said they want to be
available in 140 different countries.
That's the goal.
>> But a cloud of ethical questions linger.
Take insider trading. In investing,
there are hard rules around who and how
[music] information can be used. But
here, it's fuzzy.
>> In the original premise of prediction
market, an insider information can be a
signal.
>> I think what's cool about Polymarket is
that it creates this financial incentive
to go for people to go and divulge the
information to the market and the market
to change.
>> What we often see in these prediction
markets,
insider trading is not necessarily a bug
that needs to be fixed, but it's very
much a feature.
>> From this point of view, people with
insider information can profit from it.
>> The most famous example is someone in
the run-up to the US capturing Nicholas
Maduro placed a series of large bets
that Maduro would be removed from
office.
And they ended up making $400,000 off of
these bets. That was on Polymarket, so
those bets were anonymous, but it
appears to be someone who had knowledge
that this was going to happen.
>> In some cases, bets don't have to be big
to make a difference.
>> There are so many things to bet on, and
some of them don't have a lot of volume
or a lot of liquidity.
>> [music]
>> It doesn't take a huge amount of money
to move those markets.
>> Polymarket has introduced rules that
says are aimed at curbing trading on
non-public information, and Kalshi says
it will penalize such behavior or refer
it to the CFTC.
This evolving set of rules doesn't
completely squash the ability to stack
odds and profit from insider
information, though. And there's also
the dubious ethics of being able to bet
on conflict or violence.
>> On Kalshi, you're not allowed to bet on
assassination, [music]
terrorism, war, because the CFTC has
those outlined in its core principles as
areas where bets [music] are not
permitted. For Polymarket, those rules
don't apply because it's international,
so it has a lot of markets on areas that
people would consider unethical.
>> Another issue is how outcomes are
decided.
Kalshi and Polymarket lay out for
bettors what event, resolution criteria,
and data sources will determine the
answer to the wager.
>> In theory, who wins and who loses should
be decided by the real world. That said,
there can be hiccups when these markets
resolve.
>> Despite the issues, Kalshi and
Polymarket are raising billions of
dollars in funding.
The boom in online prediction markets is
being driven by people like Brandon
Fiend, a 25-year-old teacher in
Pennsylvania.
>> I am not a finance bro. I have [music]
no background on the stock market. My
friend actually reached out to me and
said that there was a way to bet on the
Billboard Hot 100 chart and try to
project what song was going to be number
one. And I went, "There is no
>> [music]
>> way that that is a real thing." Because
that is what I have done since I was in
eighth grade.
My first trade that I did, well, I lost
$600 and I was like, "You know what? I'm
all done."
>> But Fiend didn't quit. Instead, he
approached it like a professional
investor would, with research.
>> Sometimes it'll be hours each day,
sometimes it'll be 1 hour for the week.
I have seen success with Taylor Swift
markets with her album, how many sales
she was going to do. I go on Twitter and
I follow fan pages that update on these
things and I turn on post notifications.
So, super easy. Uh anyone can do it.
Anyone can look at [music] how people
are finding this information.
>> This is the number one strategy to start
making money on Polymarket today.
>> A lot of people are taking this very
seriously and doing a lot of research
and [music] trying to get an edge on
what they call dumb money, people who
are just kind of winging it. And in some
cases, the the kind of research they
were doing was incredibly sophisticated.
>> [music]
>> A lot of the biggest supporters, they
say, "Wow, this will be bigger than the
stock market. This will be bigger than
all financial assets cuz it allows you
to do everything." And perhaps that's
that's part of the promise. [music] But
then, the other side of the coin, the
majority of people go for entertainment.
They go to win some money. They go to
watch a game.
>> Be it entertainment or investing,
prediction [music] markets tend to
produce big winners and lots of losers.
>> Analysis done by Bloomberg and other
outlets shows that on average bettors
who invest less money in prediction
markets tend [music] to lose more often
and those who invest more money, you
know, professional side, they tend to
[music] win bigger.
>> That tendency sounds a lot like Wall
Street where big investors tend to make
most of the money.
But as with anything this new, [music]
everything is subject to change.
>> It's possible that a lot of this could
go away. We're also waiting to see how a
lot of these court cases shake out. If
the courts decide that trading on
prediction markets is the same as sports
betting and should be regulated by the
states, then [music] that completely
changes these companies business models.
>> [music]